Travel arrangements? Check. Itinerary? Check. Getting around Atlanta in an easy, comfortable, and economic fashion? Check, check, check!  

Wherever you choose to begin exploring, Atlanta’s public transportation can get you there.  

MARTA, our transit rail system, carries you across the city, through our unique neighborhoods and beyond. Climb on board of the Atlanta Streetcar to zip you around the entertainment district. If you prefer to stay with wheels, cruise around by car, rideshare, hop in a taxicab, shuttle, or even indulge in a limo service. Or, take in some fresh air and enjoy a stroll through our in-town neighborhoods and beautiful parks on foot, bicycle or scooter. 

Stick with one, or mix it up! Either way, you’ll find navigating through Atlanta is a breeze.  

MARTA – Public Transit
MARTA is Atlanta’s rapid transit rail system. It carries passengers from the airport up to Buckhead and beyond, and east and west through Atlanta’s neighborhoods. Get the scoop on where it will take you here.

Atlanta Streetcar
Running about every 10 to 15 minutes, the Atlanta Streetcar operates on a 2.7 mile loop from the convention and entertainment district to the Sweet Auburn area. Hop on here!

Shuttles & Limo Services
If you are looking for a quick, easy and elegant way to get around Atlanta, try a shuttle or limo service. These safe, courteous drivers will get you to and from with no hassle.

Taxicabs 
Atlanta taxicabs are another great option to get you where you need to go, with flat rates available between the airport and areas like downtown, Midtown and Buckhead.

By Car
Have car, will travel. Atlanta’s neighborhoods and business districts are accessible by car and many provide ample parking for visitors. The city and state also provide drivers with valuable resources such as traffic and construction alerts.

By Car
Have car, will travel. Atlanta’s neighborhoods and business districts are accessible by car and many provide ample parking for visitors. The city and state also provide drivers with valuable resources such as traffic and construction alerts.